OK.
So here we have the demonic for the product rule.
And you might look at it and say OK product that take you to please repeat outer.
What does that mean.
Well what it means is that it's going to simplify your life a lot in remembering the practical.
Nobody wants to think about you know derivative of the first times a second.
Plus the first time is a derivative of the seconds.
That's just complicated.
Right.
So that's why we have this mnemonic.
So the way to remember the mnemonic is OK you're doing a product.
OK.
So you're going to grab the first three letters of the word product which is pro p r o and this Pyrrho
stands for plays repeats and then outre.
Let's see that in practice again we have our generic function f of x and it is a product of two other
functions g of x and h of X
so we want to find the derivative of f of x
Now when we say please repeat.
What does that mean.
Well what that means is that you're going to do the following.
You're going to take this product that you see here and you're going to place it twice.
So you're going to say g of X Age of X and again g of x h of x.
And remember that when you're doing products then the derivatives are adding.
Right.
Very important.
So what do we do.
We place the repeats.
We have two repeats.
First we have g of x h of X and then we repeat it again here g g of X an H of X and then we put a plus
sign in between.
Now we have one more step which is the outers.
Well think of it like this.
We have g of X age of x x x x.
You can think of this as four different functions right.
And.
So all you're going to do is you're simply going to get the derivative of the outer ones.
So you're going to get the derivative of g of X and you're going to get the derivative of age of x.
That's it.
There you have your formula for the product rule.
And again it's the same thing we have talked about derivative of the first times the second plus the
first times the derivative of the second.
So again how do you use the mnemonic you're just going to place your repeats.
You're going to grab you know this product and you're going to put it here and you're going to put it
here again you're going to put a plus sign in between them and then you're going to get the derivative
of the outer functions which are g of X over here and H of X over here.
Let's see that working out in an actual example.
So it was 2 3 x to 10 times 5 x 5.
OK.
So these two functions are multiplying and we want to get the derivative edge of x sorry of f of x.
So again product which is then a monic PR O pro stands for place repeats again plays repeats means we're
going to grab these two functions and we're going to just rewrite them again twice.
Three x 10 5 x 5 3 x 10 5 x 5 again remember we have to put a plus sign in between.
And finally we do the derivative of the outer.
This is the outer and this is the other outer.
So you might be asking yourself how do we know that these are the outers.
Well again think of it like this.
You have one function a second one third one and a fourth.
The outer ones are the first.
This one and the last one.
OK.
So those are your outer functions.
And after this we just pretty much continue the calculation.
So now we know that we need to get the derivative of the outer So this first one here and this last
one.
Let's go ahead and proceed and do that.
So the derivative of three x to the 10 will constant multiple because we have a number of multiplying
we bring down a dictator 3x.
I'm sorry we bring down our dictator which is 10 x and then we substitute a less powerful leader.
So that's 10 minus one is 9 and we multiply that by 5 x to the 5.
So now we have this have done.
Now we're going to keep going.
We're going to say plus which is this plus over here.
And we're going to do this part.
That's going to be 3 x 10 times OK derivative of this.
Well constant multiples so we have five times and then we bring down our dictator which is another 5
5 x substitute by a less powerful leader.
That's a four.
All right.
All we need to do now is simplify and we will be done.
Let's continue down here.
All right.
So we have three times 10 is 30 30 times 5 is 150
x 2 the.
Well remember that if we have X to the M times x to the end we just add the exponents.
So in this case it's going to be X to the nine times x 2 The 5 is X to the 14 because 9 plus 5 is 14
plus.
And now we do the other half which is three times five is 15 and 15 times five is 75.
Again my 7.
My goodness.
It was really bad.
All right.
OK so now we have 75 and again what we do here is we just pretty much multiply the axes so x to the
tenth times x to the fourth is X to the 14th.
And again we can do one more simplifying step because these two terms.
A hundred and fifty to the 14th and seventy five x the 14th have the same x to the 14th.
We can just add the coefficients.
In other words add these numbers the 150 plus the 75 and keep the x or the 14th.
So 150 plus 75 is to 25
x to the 14th
and that is our final answer.
OK so quickly all we did was we use the product rule because we have two functions that were multiplying
the product rule.
We have our mnemonic which is Parow the first three letters play repeat so we grab the 3 x 10 and the
5 x to the 5 and we write them out twice.
That's placing your repeats.
Remember we put a plus sign in between those repeats.
And finally we go ahead and get the derivative of the out-of function.
So that's going to be this function here and this function here.
All right.
The order functions are just the first and the last.
And then we'll just calculate and simplify and that's how we get our answer.
And that's pretty much it for our product will.
We're going to get lots of practice with the product we'll do not worry about it if it doesn't make
sense.
You can just watch the video again try to make sense of what the mnemonic means and what placing repeat
and getting the derivative of the outer means.
But again we'll get a lot of practice to make sure that you know this and that it's in your head and
that you know how to do it well.
OK.
So one more thing I wanted to mention before we go on is.
OK so the product rule actually applies when you have two functions multiplying right.
But what happens when you have more than two.
So let's say that after VAX is equal to g of X..
Sorry about that g of X times h of X times I have X now we have three functions that are multiplying
G H and I.
How do we get the derivative of this.
Well you could extend the Prora rule and you could use it for three functions.
Now that is tedious.
That's adding more work.
How about this.
What you can do is you can just say you can just rewrite
this function and you can group for example g and h as one function.
And then I add the other function.
So you could say something like g of x h of X as one and then that multiplied by X at the end of the
day it's really the same thing because there are still all of a multiplying.
But by doing this you can actually apply the same product rule that we know in which we have remember
our Monnick Pro we place our repeats and then we do the derivative of the outer function.
Quick example
of X equals x squared 3 x to 3 4 x to the 4.
So we have three functions that are multiplying two squared three x cubed and for X to the fourth power.
So how do we do this.
Well we can simply regroup this.
And in fact we'll do it on the side here.
And we'll say that these two first two to x squared 3 x 3
times 4 x to the fourth power.
And in fact now that these are grouped we can actually multiply them together so they become one function
and then they multiply this function
of x equals two times three is six and again we can just add our exponents because we have x squared
times execute.
That's X to the 5 because two plus three is five.
Right.
So this became 6 x to the 5 right.
And then we just multiply by our third function which we left all by itself.
For X to the fourth guess what.
Now we have two functions right.
We have six x to the fifth and four x to the fourth power.
So now we can just go ahead and apply our product rule.
As usual you know we just place the.
Let me do it quickly here.
Derivative of f x we place our repeats.
So 6 x to the.
For x for we it again 6 x to the.
For x to the four.
We put a plus sign.
And don't forget the outer.
So we get the derivative of the first and the last
derivative of the first.
It's six times the dictator that comes down six times five is 30 x.
Subtract 1 from the exponent four times for X to the four which is this plus 6 x to the.
Again we get the derivative of this.
It's constant multiples of four.
We bring down a dictator that's a 4 x 6.
Substitute for one of less power that's had three.
And then we just simplify you know 30 times for is 120
x or the fourth times X or the fourth is X to the eight
plus six times 4 is 24 24 times for what we have 20 times for is 80 and four times for 16.
So that's 96 and then we just again multiply the X's.
So X of the five times X to that 3 is X to the 8.
And then we have X to the eighth on both terms.
So we can simplify and add these together.
So that's going to give us one.
It's 120 plus 96 that's going to give us 200 plus 16 that's 216 X to the 8.
And that is our final answer.
So again see how easy it is to just combine functions here and multiply them together until you have
two.
So you get into this form and that's when you apply the product will that we already know how to use.
So you can use this trick wherever you want.
You don't have to remember anything else more about the product rule.
Just simplify until it's two functions and then use our mnemonic pro place repeats and then do the outer
oh ok perfect.
So now let's go over a summary of what we just covered in the product rule.
So first of all the product rule is used to find the derivative products multiplications of functions.
Remember that our product is a result of a multiplication.
So whenever we have functions multiplying you're going to have to use the product rule.
Also very important remember that the derivative of a product is not the product of the derivatives.
OK.
This is critical when you see two functions multiplying I don't think you can get the derivative of
the first and the derivative of the second and then multiply them together.
That's not going to work.
Instead you have to use the product well the way it is meant to be used.
So the product rule says the derivative of the first times the second function plus the first function
times a derivative of the second.
Again it's like a tongue twister.
We don't want to remember that we want something easier.
And that's where the money comes in.
The mnemonic is pro which are the first three letters of product.
OK.
So mnemonic says for pro is place repeats and derivatives of outer place repeats just means that if
you have two functions multiplying and let's call these g of x and h of X
then you're going to have to actually write them twice.
Just like we did in the examples
and put a plus sign in between them.
OK.
So we have giove of x h of X plus same thing g of x h of X that that is the place repeats.
And then we have the last step of the mnemonic which is the outer.
So we just apply the prime to the outer functions.
The outer is this first and this last.
So we put a prime here to signify a derivative and we put a prime here to say derivative.
And this giftes is what we have here.
But you know remembering it this way is a lot more complicated.
Now we have derivative of first times the second plus first time derivative of second.
That is our Parow mnemonic.
And finally if you need to find the derivative of a product of more than two functions.
So if you're multiplying three functions for functions five functions you can actually group them so
that they become only two functions.
And then you apply pro because again the mnemonic that we have Parow pretty much works with two functions.
And remember that the way to group several functions is for example if you have three functions that
are multiplying.
You grab the first and the second you multiply them together.
And all of a sudden now you have the first and second together which becomes function number one times.
The third function which becomes function number two.
And again if this is a little shaky if I'm saying too much that you're not getting to not worry we'll
cover a lot of these problems in the practice problem section.
But this is it for the product rule.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.